So rather than tell you about it,
I thought I would write a little code to kind of demonstrate some of the
key features of the framework that we're already taking advantage of in the
TODO application in kind of a smaller chunk.
So, I'll drop the JSFiddle here into the chat after we get through things here.
But, I'm going to write a little bit of code here in this fiddle.
I'm loading in Vue from npmcdn.
com,
which is actually kind of a nifty tool for loading in
npm modules into your front-end code,
especially in situations like this where you're wiping up a fiddle.
So in any case,
all I've started off with here is having Vue loaded
in onto the global window scope,
and then I've got a HTML element that I'm going to
essentially bind my Vue component to.
So, I'm going to create a new Vue.
And what I'm going to endeavor,
to do is to create a todo list interface which will show up in the
lower right-hand corner of the screen over here.
So, when I create a component, a Vue component,
I'm going to bind it to an individual element,
and here I pass in a selector for that component element.
And, the first thing I'm probably going to want for my Vue is some kind of input,
like a text field input,
that's going to be the place where I actually type in my todo list item,
and then I'll have a button --- hang on,
I'll make this a little bigger.
I'll have a button that you'll click to actually add the todo item.
And then,
I'll probably have an unordered list here of all the items on my todo list.
So if I reload the page, I've got my user interface,
but it doesn't actually do anything just yet.
So the first bit that I'm going to do is declare a
data attribute of my Vue component.
So, this data attribute, when you declare it up front like this,
basically allows Vue to monitor these properties of this data object.
So if you make any changes to the properties of this object,
those will update any user interface elements that
are bound to those attributes.
So, in this case, I'm going to create a data element for the todos,
and maybe I'll seed it with one todo list item like get the milk,
or something like that.
So I've got --- oops, that's not what I wanted.
I wanted that.
So, I've got a Vue component with some basic data in it,
and now I need to render that out to my user interface here.
So, the way in which you do that in Vue is with an HTML directive,
most of which for Vue.
js are prefixed with a v-.
And there's a directive called v-for which will loop over an array within
your data model and output some template based on that.
So, for todo in todos, which is this element of my data object down here,
I'm going to render a list item,
and then I'm going to use the double mustaches to
output some data from my model.
Then I'm just going to output todo.
text.
And when I reload that, I now get my list item updating.
Now I need to kind of wire up my user interface here,
such that I can enter a new todo list item,
click the button, and something is going to happen.
So for that, I'm going to do a couple of things.
I'm going to bind the value of the input field to a
property of my underlying data model.
And the way that I do that in Vue is with this v-model directive.
And I'm going to say I want to bind the value of this input
field with a model field called newTodo,
which doesn't yet exist,
so I'm going to come down here and add that to my data model.
And I'll initialize that to just be an empty string.
And then to actually make it such that I can add new todo items,
I have to make this button do something as well.
There's also a directive for that, for binding event handlers on your HTML,
and that directive is called v-on.
And then after a colon,
you can pass in the name of a DOM event that you're interested in binding.
So v-on:click is going to be a model method that we haven't defined yet.
We'll just call add.
Now we need to go down here, back to our component,
and in addition to tracking the element and the data associated with it,
we're going to create some methods on our object,
and we're going to create one called add.
And what that add function is going to do,
it's going to push a new item into our list of todos.
So in this case, the text is going to be the current value of this.
newTodo.
So we're going to add that to our list of todos,
and then we'll also blank out our newTodo item,
setting that back to a blank string.
So if I run that, I should be able to come over here and say new todo item,
and click Enter, and it looks like by and large my little todo list is working.
So,
again what I think is really neat about this is with what
is a very small amount of code and not having to change how
I render my page very much,
I get this really powerful data binding mechanism and event
handling in this component which is pretty much completely
decoupled from my HTML markup.
So, there's lots more that Vue can do.
For the exercise that I'm about to turn you loose on,
you're going to want to definitely check out Vue's excellent guide,
which kind of takes you through a lot of the core concepts you're going to
need to learn to get up to speed on developing with Vue.
And as always,
we like to bring up the alternative slide here because there are always a
million ways to do everything in the JavaScript world.
We already kind of went over them.
All of them are great alternatives to use.
I explained some of the reasoning behind like why I'm kind of
high on Vue because I feel like the value that it provides me
is very high relative to what it asks of me in terms of how I
structure my application, in terms of how many dependencies I need to load in.
So, I think Vue is nice combination of features and weight.
But, these other frameworks up here are also awesome.
React is taking over the world.
React Native is a really cool project especially.
Ember does a lot of things really well.
Backbone was kind of my previous go to for a lighter weight MVC-type thing.
So all of these, totally awesome, you should use them if you like them if it makes you happy.